[Music]
hey it's Chris and rich from the foiling
mag here to do a deep dive review on the
newly released axis art V2 foil which
they're launching with three sizes is
launched a 879 a 939 and a
999 so initial Impressions on this um it
looks a lot like uh the previous sort of
release of the axis Wing um which was
named after a World War II British Air
aircraft um so yeah there's an
undeniable likeness to the Spitfire here
however it's had a serious kind of diet
so the profile is much much thinner and
it's higher
aspect um it still retains that kind of
tiny little concave in the trailing edge
here and it still has the elliptical
shape with that kind of median line that
sits across there that gives it that
kind of consistent
feel um and we found basically that this
is really good for winging brilliant
yeah super glidey really so where the
Spitfire had a sort of speed limitation
this one far improved on its kind of
Glide and its speed range it's much much
wider um you see on the nose of it it's
actually quite sharp down there so it's
rather than having a big bulbous front
like the Spitfire this has been refined
I think particularly out into the tips
that's a far more aggressive Leading
Edge so if we're looking at it how it
slots in the range between that Spitfire
and the RT Pro it's it's it's almost
like they've rather than looking at the
old art it's like they've looked at the
current spit fire and then they've tuned
that up and it's kind of characteristics
where if you looked at the Spitfire um
had a really predictable turn radius and
it was quite tight in its turn radius
it's got that similar feeling but it's
just a little bit faster in how it
carries itself yeah I found winging this
fills all the voids that I I kind of
felt about the Spitfire in that it it
just had that limited speed range which
was good if you wanted to stay in the
pocket but in sort of faster like
rolling swell almost I I want to be able
to shoot ahead of it so this eliminates
that speed limitation I found with the
Spitfire and definitely improves on the
glid and efficiency it feels like a much
more efficient foil top and bottom end
isn't it what I think a standup feature
for me of thist V2 is is its bottom end
stall characteristics I found it lifts
really early and really Progressive and
predictable um to get you going but then
as you come down to that stall speed
whereas the older version of the a or
even the Spitfire might collapse out
this is really comfortable and it's
telling you that it's reaching its
bottom end rather than just collapsing
yeah it doesn't just switch on you and
go yeah I I I find found exactly the
same it feels more comfortable
throughout its speed range and the speed
range is wider which is a really great
thing um tip breach bit of a bone of
contention it is I mean it's obviously a
flat foil um uh it's relatively flat
it's it's only got a little bit of
downturn a little downturn I don't if
you can see that on the camera
which definitely tells me straight away
that it's designed for riding more flat
um it does roll much better um than
maybe their previous art yeah there's
less paddle into the wing tip absolutely
so it is more loose in roll but I've
definitely found that as you roll hard
and the tip starts to come out it's
probably less forgiving than the
Spitfire on that yeah don't know if you
found that yeah it's like you said
earlier like um if you kind of commit to
a tip breach and do a big one it's great
but if it's a little tip breach then
sometimes it'll catch you out but maybe
that's your body preempting what's going
on so I found is a riding style it's
really well suited to to a cruising
arcing turn rather than a hard pushing
carve yeah and that makes sense
completely on a higher aspect ratio foil
in that it's got intrinsically got more
span therefore it likes wider arcing
turns but I think it still feels for my
riding style it still feels relatively
agile yeah
it's fun it pumps really well you can
connect the lumps amazing and it's still
comfortable turning top and bottom and
pushing it through so long as you're not
pushing it tight in a pocket that that
tip might start to come out yeah so it
probably biases its riding more for
winging than proning do you think I I've
really enjoyed it prone actually I think
it's it pumps so well and connects the
lumps together so well it's actually a
real joy to prone on it but I've found
that if you've put it into much of a
pocket or youve tried to push it too
hard that tip breach and its role
characteristics it it's told you that's
what not what it's designed for yeah
it's designed for bump connection rather
than pocket hunting yeah that's probably
a fair assessment I'd say um but yeah
gen so in summary um we both G on really
well with it I'd say um I particularly
liked it winging and I think it's a big
step up from the Spitfire um I think
downwind um it's not a forte of M but I
feel like if as a down winding Wing it's
probably going to bridge that Gap really
nicely between the Spitfire which is
possibly a bit slow for that genre an AR
which maybe doesn't have the bottom end
that people need yeah and this is
probably going to be a weapon for for
that step up foil for people maybe
coming off the pump and glide and
looking for that next sort of downwind
foil yeah so talk about um tail and fuse
combinations this was really interesting
I found this so I was running it on an
ultra shot um for quite a while and I
found it quite pitch sensitive yeah
personally um and then Freddy the rep
passed us on a different fuse L which
was the crazy short and it felt a lot
more comfortable it's like you could
iron out its changes really easy and and
I definitely found a shorter fuse made
it a more comfortable foil to use yeah
okay so yeah Wing wise I ran it on the
longer one so I think it was what's this
this is the crazy short say 600 mil and
it felt really comfortable I think so
who is the art v24 Chris I think it's a
pretty broad range of Rider I think I
don't feel like it could be your first
foil even though it's got amazing bottom
end lift and it comes up very easy it's
quite spicy yeah in how it rides it it's
it it wants to roll it takes some energy
to make it roll but when it starts to go
it really it wants to drop and it wants
to drive forwards out of the turns but I
think that's probably a bit Lively for
your first foil yeah anybody that's
intermediate and above is going to get
on with it
I guess it decid it's for somebody or
what's your riding style you know and so
if you're looking to push hard turns
it's probably not the one if you're
looking to go top speed they've got the
a a pro it's for somebody probably
everyday Rider that wants to do all
genres but not at their extreme yeah I
feel I found it particularly easy to
tune into for my riding style which is
generally more wider arcing ter and
following swell and just kind of carving
around a bit um so so yeah it may not be
for the absolute like Sur focused Ripper
let's say my more longboard style seemed
to suit it She's a beauty that isn't it
I think it its range is probably I feel
like its range is is its widest range
within the axis range in terms of
Versatility and if you were to pick in
their massive really extensive range now
one foil that would kind of do it all I
feel like this is it probably be it for
most people that are intermediate
upwards I'd say yeah um and sizewise 99
it's pretty powerful you know this is
this is kind of a classic size it's
where they've launched their first art
um but I feel like this has got a much
wider range than that and the art feels
like something you could have in your
quiver to run high or low wind pretty
much yeah so in sumy we both really
enjoyed it we think it's a great
addition to the axis range um and for a
lot of people that have bought into that
system it's a great step up well done
well done asan top work and that is the
art V2 from axis check it out
[Music]